
w

info: 用户及会话信息

use:
    w
	09:49:34  up 4 min,  2 users,  load average: 0.42, 0.81, 0.38
	服务器时间 开机时长  登录用户数  平均负载:1、5、15分钟(一般0.8以下，说明较轻)
	USER	登录用户名
	TTY		在哪登录   	:0表示XWindow登录
	FROM	来自哪里	:0.0 表示来自于XWindow    - 表示本地命令行登录
	LOGIN@	什么时候登录的
	IDLE		空闲时间
	JCPU	该终端消耗的CPU时间
	PCPU	正在执行程序消耗的时间
	WHAT	正在做什么

--help
    Usage:
     w [options]

    Options:
     -h, --no-header     do not print header
     -u, --no-current    ignore current process username
     -s, --short         short format
     -f, --from          show remote hostname field
     -o, --old-style     old style output
     -i, --ip-addr       display IP address instead of hostname (if possible)

         --help     display this help and exit
     -V, --version  output version information and exit

    For more details see w(1).


man w
    NAME
           w - Show who is logged on and what they are doing.

    SYNOPSIS
           w - [husfiV] [user]

    DESCRIPTION
           w  displays  information about the users currently on the machine, and their processes.  The header shows, in
           this order,  the current time, how long the system has been running, how many users are currently logged on,
           and the system load averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes.

           The following entries are displayed for each user: login name, the tty name, the remote host, login time, idle
           time, JCPU, PCPU, and the command line of their current process.

           The JCPU time is the time used by all processes attached to the tty.  It does not include past background jobs,
           but does include currently running background jobs.

           The PCPU time is the time used by the current process, named in the "what" field.

    COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
           -h   Don’t print the header.

           -u   Ignores the username while figuring out the current process and cpu times.  To demonstrate this, do a "su"
           and do a "w" and a "w -u".

           -s   Use the short format.  Don’t print the login time, JCPU or PCPU times.

           -f   Toggle printing the from (remote hostname) field.  The default as released is for the from field to not be
                printed, although your system administrator or distribution maintainer may have compiled a version in which
                the from field is shown by default.

           -i   Display IP address instead of hostname (if possible)

           -V   Display version information.

           user Show information about the specified user only.

    FILES
           /var/run/utmp
                  information about who is currently logged on

           /proc  process information

    SEE ALSO
           free(1), ps(1), top(1), uptime(1), utmp(5), who(1)

    AUTHORS
           w was re-written almost entirely by Charles Blake, based on the version by Larry Greenfield <greenfie@gauss.
           rutgers.edu> and Michael K. Johnson <johnsonm@redhat.com>.

           Please send bug reports to <albert@users.sf.net>

                                      8 Dec 1993                              W(1)
